# AoC 2023 !!!
Notes related to AoC 2023   
Misadventures in rust...   
## Day 1
- cargo install aoc-cli
    - 187 packages!
    - took forever on chromebook
    - finally succeeded, mess with session cookie
    - looks good! Info for any day, download data etc...

Nice error message from cargo, assist on function return typing, showed 
proper syntax for println!(), much beter than other languages.   

OK piecing together examples from various sites, able to read input file,
iterate over lines, and iterate over string chars!
Now only need to create an array of digits to push the newest two digit number
into for each line.
Can't forget how useful this site has been:
[a half hour to learn rust](https://fasterthanli.me/articles/a-half-hour-to-learn-rust)

This is both amazing an horrifying to watch rust yell at me for each
new iteration of this very simple code, got type &str, expected String, 
can't borrow all_lines as mutable, need to change declration to mut etc...
But oh is it sweet to see all of those errors disappear

**from half hour to rust**
Strings: String is owned, &str is a reference
Paths: PathBuf is owned, &Path is a reference
Collections: Vec<T> is owned, &[T] is a reference
- indexing into a String is complicated by the differences between how people and computers interpret String data.
## Day 2 

Game 1: 3 blue, 4 red; 1 red, 2 green, 6 blue; 2 green 
    - (1) [3B, 4R], [1R, 2G, 6B], [2G]
Game 2: 1 blue, 2 green; 3 green, 4 blue, 1 red; 1 green, 1 blue
    - (2) [8G, 6B, 20R], [5B, 4R, 13G], [5G, 1R]
Game 3: 8 green, 6 blue, 20 red; 5 blue, 4 red, 13 green; 5 green, 1 red
    - (3) [8G, 6B, 20R], [5B, 4R, 13G], [5G, 1R]
Game 4: 1 green, 3 red, 6 blue; 3 green, 6 red; 3 green, 15 blue, 14 red
Game 5: 6 red, 1 blue, 3 green; 2 blue, 1 red, 2 green

Bag: [12R, 13G, 14B]

struct {
    red: string
    blue: string
    green: string
    redCount: int
    blueCount: int
    greenCount: int
}

1. [x] read in file
2. [x]  iterate over lines
3. [x] crate new "grab" struct
4. [x] split grabs by semicolons
5. split grab by spaces
6. get 2 slices at a time: num & color
7. use color to match and add number
8. after end of grabs match struct to Bag
9. if any of the cube nums > than bag then game not possible
10. if none are larger then add game id to the total solution += gameID

---
## Day 7

Day 1_1 & Day 2_1 complete!
- Need part to fix machines
- Why did the parts stop?
- Camel cards
- List of hands, order based on strength
['A', 'K', 'Q', 'J', 'T', '9', '8', '7', '6', '5', '4', '3', '2']
- A: Highest => 2:Lowest
- Every hand is one type
- bid multiplied by rank, weakest:1 => highest:5 

32T3K 765 x 1 = 765
T55J5 684 x 4 = 2736 
KK677 28  x 3 = 84
KTJJT 220 x 2 = 440
QQQJA 483 x 5 = 2415

32T3K 765
T55J5 684
KK677 28
KTJJT 220
QQQJA 483

1. create empty list and hand struct
2. Count number of hands 
3. Scorer function = what type is this?
4. recursive sorter function
5. compare hands one by one

```python
def bubbleSort(alist):
    for passnum in range(len(alist)-1,0,-1):
        for i in range(passnum):
            if alist[i]>alist[i+1]:
                temp = alist[i]
                alist[i] = alist[i+1]
                alist[i+1] = temp
```
Sorting cards in hand to find hand type
```python
for i, card in cards:
    if card[i] == card[i+1]
        if card[i+1] == card
    
```
    







